# Maidstone Hackspace AGM

30 october 2021 at 2000

## Apologies for absence

Oly

## Attending

Tom, Simon, Ian, Vic, Josh, Jake

## Meeting started by Chairman

**Tom:**
(Tom introduces himself as current Chairman, we approve previous AGM meeting notes.)  
Tom stepped in last time as the chairman when Oly stepped down due to new family commitments.

We can start building this back up following the pandemic.

**Simon:**
(Simon Ridley introduces himself as current treasurer, and presents account summary)

> as of 28th October we have £893.95 in the bank.  
> £70.52 in Paypal  
> Total of £964.17  
> Factor in rent £203 per month
>
> 3 month period for notice leaving £352.95
>
> Members 10 paying brings in £217 per month
>
> Closed around August 2020 as a result of Covid doors remained shut for 13 months.  
> Between March 2020 and May 2021 we had %46 loss in membership, at the end of September this year 25% increase in membership
>
> Between the period of March and may we were in loss and were talking about closing the space.  
> We have not stabilised the position and we are now able to sustain the space.
>
> Josh, Vic and I have been reviewing the equipment in the space.  
> We had 2 3d printers which were not functioning  
> which brought in £130  
> Have an offer to purchase the remaining filament as a job lot.
>
> Financially we are currently in a reasonable position.

**Tom:**

> We managed 18 months, we were looking to close, we came up with creative solutions well done to everyone to keep it going.  
> We can now plan the future.

**Ian:**
(Introduces himself as the current secretary)

> I stepped in due to the previous secretary leaving and wanting to keep the space going.  
> However due to my job changing over the last few years I am not looking to step down.

**Tom:**

> I was equally place-holding, so would also be stepping down, but wouldn't want to leave you in the lurch.

## Election of the 2021/2022 committee

Ian and Tom looking to step down.

### Nominations for Chairmen

Simon Ridley volunteered to take the role of Chairman, no other nominations.  
Simon Elected to Chairman - Proposed by Josh Oliver, Seconded by Ian Wilkinson

### Nominations for the now empty role of treasurer

Josh Oliver volunteered for treasurer, no other nominations.  
Josh Oliver treasurer Proposed by Simon Ridley, seconded by Jake Jackson.

### Nominations for secretary

Vic Roy volunteered for secretary, no other nominations.  
Vic Roy for secretary - Proposed Jake Jackson, seconded by Simon Ridley

Confirmed that previous committee members are happy to hand over to new members over the next few weeks.

Simon continued meeting as Chairman.

## Hackspace legal structure

**Simon:**

> Discussions around if we should be a CIC or Charity.  
> Josh and Simon have spent the last week or so investigating the options.
>
> - CLG company limited by guarantee
> - CCLG Charity Company Limited by guarantee.
> - CIO Charity Incorporated Organisation
> - CIC community Interested company
>
> **CLG** normally differs from a company by the members not being liable for any costs:
>
> - Registered with Companies house.
> - Will we need to be audited?
> - There's a cost associated because you need an accountant.
>
> For Charities, which covers **CCLG** & **CIO**.  
> In order to be able to act as a charity you need to register with the charitable commission fees for this are £795 ex vat
>
> We can't afford this.
>
> **CIC** - It brings can have shareholders or no shareholders limited by liability
>
> - Members can vote at AGM
> - Fits well with current setup
> - Membership can be limited to directors, or to a wider membership.
> - No full accounts, only show income and expenditure
> - CT600 needs to be sent annually to company house, which does incur the costs of an accountant.
>   - Using an online accountant at "people per hour" example cost £150 to file ct600 for you.
>   - ACC net solutions charge £60 to submit a ct600.
>   - If you have a physical accountant will pay significantly more.

**Vic:**

> Is there any advantage to being a CLG over a CIC?

**Josh:**

> being a CIC is more acceptable for funding.  
> £27 to register at company house.  
> Other hackspaces are generally CIC

**Simon:**

> The Maidstone Community Centre only allows Charities or CICs.  
> Therefore we wouldn't be able to stay here.

Simon proposes a Vote for moving forward with CIC.  
 _**All members voted in favour.**_

## Public Liability Insurance

**Simon:**

> Josh and I did some more research and discovered via the Hackspaces foundation that Engine Insurance specialises in Hackspaces.  
> To get a baseline in costings, this covers minimum £2million, and Trustee indemnity at £250,000, legal expenses included,  
> Contents included up to £2k.  
> The total £336.67 per year, £28.05 per month.  
> The current reality is that the space makes £17 per month so we can't currently afford public liability without growing our membership.

**Question from a member:**

> Why do we need insurance?

**Simon:**

> If you run classes, workshops, go to any events, technically even in your own space, if anyone should get injured with the the equipment.

**Josh:**

> If someone is using the equipment and they should sue, the insurance should cover this. Without this we would have to cover the costs.

**Vic:**

> Can we get members to sign to say they will not sue the space?

**Ian:**

> I've been told from other hackspaces that is unenforcible, they said we need insurance.  
> I personally think this is something we absolutely need as a space.

**Simon:**

> yep, agreed.

**Ian:**

> We certainly can't invest or use any bigger equipment than we've got without equipment.  
> Looking to grow the space, we have to have the insurance.

**Simon:**

> It's fair to say this will remain a continuing agenda item, closely monitored with the financial position.  
> The committee has to accept the risk that if we were ever approached to being sued, because the CIC is limited, ultimately
> it would bankrupt the space and it would fold. This would be the financial fallout, it would just end the space.  
> That would be the risk.

**Jake:**

> If it's such a vital thing, and we have a surplus in the accounts is it worth just starting it up on the assumption that we should be able to expand the membership?

**Josh:**

> It's an option to take the insurance on the basis that we expand membership.  
> We can go on risk without insurance.  
> We should investigate other providers, if we work through the asset list and see what else we can get rid of...

**Simon:**

> All the time we have additional profit over that three month period.  
> We could commit the money to do it but the line is very thin.  
> I think this should be an agenda item to carry this over to the next committee meeting to review.

## Funding

**Vic:**

> We could have some of the silent members drop out.  
> As a CIC can we apply for donations and funding.

**Josh:**

> We need to investigate the funding for CIC

**Simon:**

> We did some research and there's a group in the centre called "Funds For all" that specialise in getting funds for groups.

## Assets and inventory list

**Simon:**

> Vic and I spent a lot of time organise the space.  
> Some kit/items which are not being used and can be sold.
>
> Tools that don't work / are broken  
> We own a lot of stuff that we don't know about.  
> We've divided the space into two
>
> The room on the right is a space to store stuff to make the left room usable.
>
> We have a template which we can use to fill out the audit the space
>
> Pegboard is in progress to help tidy the space
>
> Can we set a date???
>
> Aim to get the template setup.
>
> 27th November - date for Big Asset Management 1000 start.

## Website development

**Josh:**

> I find the website completely unclear what we can provide or who are members  
> Not clear about image  
> or showing what you can access at the space which you might not have at home.  
> On the current website has very clear lack of direction with you don't what members are doing or who are current members.
>
> I think if we need the website as a main site of connection.
>
> Other hackspaces have a wish list about tools etc, but not able to be found on ours.
>
> Pages are not easily linkable.
>
> Needs overhauling  
> What tools we may have  
> Who can help?  
> Is a project feasible?
>
> Three or four methods of communication.

**Simon:**

> Can I raise a committee action to reduce the number of methods of communication.  
> Managing that is extremely difficult.

**Ian:**

> This is a bugbear of mine.  
> We have a forum that nobody uses, we have the email list that almost nobody uses.  
> I wanted to replace those with Discourse, it's got the advantage of doing email if you want,  
> you can use permissions that could tie in with the website.
>
> South East london use Discourse very well for almost all of their member to member communication.

**Jake:**

> Is this something we have to host ourselves, as there's a cost involved?

**Ian:**

> Yes, we use digital ocean for hosting.
> When we spun it up last time we ran into resource constraints.
> I believe we've expanded our droplets sizes since then so we should be ok.  
> There's a [talk from a chap at EMF camp](https://www.emfcamp.org/schedule/2018/92-bootstrapping-a-hackerspace) from a EU hackspace about how they've merged together a lot of technology to give their members a very good experience.
> This is something I wanted to implement.  
> I would love for our membership cards to actually be tied in with the membership system.  
> The card doesn't currently know if you're an active member, what currently happens is that it makes an API.  
> We know what then happens, when we lose WiFi you can't get in.  
> Once you've got that working on the card, you can then use the card to unlock kit once you've completed your training.

**Simon:**

> Needs to have calenders, events, courses etc., added to website.
>
> To take an action - Simon to Reach out to Oly & Sam for a website 101.

**Josh:**

> Needs to show open evenings  
> Getting the information out to the potential members.  
> Members only sections need to be improved.

**Jake:**

> General announcements on discourse.

**Simon:**

> Ok, can we agree a date for the next committee meeting to discuss the following:
>
> - Remove mailing-list and forums - Action now - All members agreed.
> - Discourse and improving our communications - Action for next committee meeting.
> - Please can we have suggestions for platforms and feedback emailed in from members before the committee meeting please.
> - Action - Simon to Reach out to Oly & Sam for a website 101.

## Community involvement - Generate membership and Funds

**Simon:**

> Around 2018 we came up with a sumo bot event.  
> It was to encouraging competition.
> Have something ourselves
> Have something in the lead up to the event running sessions to tutor people.
> For those not familiar autonomous robots to push out of a ring.
>
> Open to either autonomous or remote control.

**Vic:**

> We can reach out to schools and uni's and run class good way to generate money can provide training in electronics.

**Simon:**

> We can charge a small fee for workshop/classes.  
> Do we want to push this as a Maidstone hackspace event?

**Vic:**

> I have some experience in teaching kids.

**Simon:**

> These are all things we can push, do we want to do this?

**Ian:**

> When we were first talking about this we were talking about challenging other hackspaces, some sort of inter hackspace sumo bot competition.  
> We built a non-standard ring, but that would be fine for running courses,

**Simon:**

> Good idea

**Josh:**

> We can use EMF camp to show off ourselves and if you have things in common.

**Simon:**

> As we've had good uptake from members here, we'll take an Action for next committee meeting for ideas for tutoring.  
> We can try and firm up ideas for a sumo

**Vic:**

> I have a DBS check,
> **Ian:**
> So do I
> **Simon:**
> I do too
> **Jake:**
> Me too

**Josh:**

> Need other ideas to attract people to the space.
> Advertise here as well.
> Engaging events, one off events or ongoing tutelage to promote us

**Simon:**

> What was the even we went to in Essex?

**Ian:**

> Southend on sea raspberry jam.  
> We went over there with some of our projects, and my robot I built for PiWars before I'd found the hackspace.  
> They were running courses there, like building a radio.  
> Running something like running a raspberry jam can be very beneficial.  
> There used to be someone in kent running the raspberry jams, but I'm not aware of any significant raspberry jams recently.

**Simon:**

> Look into Raspberry jam in a bit more depth.  
> Sounds like it matches the criteria we are looking for.

**Jake:**

> What about PiWars?

**Ian:**

> It's switched to home based, and probably isn't as much of a pull as before.

**Simon:**

> Action for the next committee
>
> - Firm up some activities - Josh
> - Vic - To refresh on previous teaching activities.

**Josh:**

> Jacky - Mentioned Six bricks?  
> Is a lego foundation funded program to learn anything using just 6 lego bricks - bridge building, electronics.  
> We can adapt something like that, use something like blocks to teach coding.
>
> With functional programming you don't have to worry about something like syntax.
>
> it's something we could possibly produce ourselves.  
> We could 3d print and tailor make our own program inspired on 6 bricks.

**Simon:**

> Ok, what do you like to proceed?

**Josh:**

> We should research into six bricks and how it could be applied to our field.  
> Ideas in how it can be adapted, use as a launch pad into pi bots.  
> Introduce the building element.

**Simon:**

> With members like Jacky are invested and would be likely to promote it.

**Josh:**

> With 6 bricks being a Lego brand is well known, it brings in more interest.  
> It is a well known things, it could be a Good jumping off point.

**Simon:**

> Action for the committee: by next meeting need to have the supporting material to start planning some events, such as six bricks.

## AOB

**Josh:**

> Other hackspaces offer child memberships alongside adult memberships, concession rates for students, OAPs, etc.  
> We are not in a position to support this.  
> It should not look like we are pledging to something.  
> We don't want to take away benefits, because it's about fostering a good environment.  
> It's about fostering the interest, it's not as scary as it seems.  
> We can break it down.

**Simon:**

> What would you prefer?  
> Would you prefer we go down the route of if there's a member who has a child that wishes to join that we offer a child discount?

**Josh:**

> yes

**Ian:**

> Don't we already say that children are 50%?

**Simon:**

> We say nothing.

**Ian:**

> It's in the constitution.

**Simon:**

> It's in the constitution if you can find it.

(lot's of people talking)

**Ian:**

> I thought there was no minimum membership.

**Simon:**

> I'm going to set you an action Josh of a draft proposal payment structure.

**Ian:**

> I thought we should have a minimum payment.  
> Yes, The constitution says all junior members qualify for a 50% discount on the membership fee.  
> In the constitution, it does say that.

**Josh:**

> But the problem is you don't want to be reading the constitution to find out.

**Ian:**

> No, but I don't think we have a minimum amount.  
> We have a suggested £20.

**Josh:**

> the website is preset at £20.  
> I think as a committee we can adjust due to circumstances.

**Simon:**

> I updated the website particularly around that from the feedback, so the website provides more context around what bang you get for your buck.  
> Certainly open to expanding upon that.  
> £20 should be the membership fee, but if there are individuals with financial hardship then in consultation with the committee look into it.

**Ian:**

> Looking at other hackspaces, Cambridge and South east london have minimum amounts,
> The main London hackspace has a pay what you want.
> The model we adopted was from the major London hackspace, which seems premature as they have hundreds of members.
> To bootstrap the space we need a guaranteed income.

**Josh:**

> Can investigate other kent hackspaces, and universities.
> With the pandemic people are more interested in more virtual stuff.

**Simon:**

> Hang on to the idea, but I don't want to overwhelm and go in lots of different directions.
> Stick with the actions we've got and carry it over.

## Storage Space

**Ian:**

> I would suggest that we would be better off using our storage space for hackspace stuff and members do not get to store their projects here.

**Simon:**

> At all?

**Ian:**

> at all.

**???:**

> Or if they have do have to, we could charge them an extra on top of their membership.

**???:**

**Ian:**

> I think that's a dangerous path to go down

**???:**

> (Unable to hear over recording)

**Simon:**

> So no to do it at all?

**Ian:**

> I think don't do it.
> The space we have is at a premium,

**???:**

> I don't think we have the space.

**Simon:**

> Ok, fine guys, if that's the unanimous view I'm happy.

**Ian:**

> I think it's a double benefit, we keep the space for things the Hackspace actually needs, the kit, the tools.  
> We can organise them better because we don't have a whole bunch of member stuff taking up space.  
> Secondly keeping the actual space clean and organised will be easier because you don't have a half finished project with tools things scattered around it.  
> You can come, you can work on something, you can take it home.

**???:**
(unable to hear)

**Simon:**

> Even recently We've got things in the space from members who hae joined and then gone during the pandemic.  
> I've no idea what they are.

**Ian:**

> There was two things a chap from Oxford hackspace said,
>
> 1, You have to be very careful about people donating things to the space.
> You have to get them to sign something to state if it's a loan, or a change of ownership.
> Because if they come along and demand it back, you have to be able to back it up.

**Josh:**
(mentions asset management, not sure exactly what was said)

**Jake:**

> And you don't know who owns it.

**Ian:**

> The second problem is if you have projects that are in progress in the space, you get this problem of ownership.  
> At what point can you get rid of this?

**Simon:**

> With the current situation I sent a message out via email and via chat system, and said there were unfinished projects.  
> If you don't let us know it's fair game. We have got rid of stuff already.

**Ian:**

> There was a 2b part of that, and I know I'm guilty of this.  
> Hackspaces can become a place for people to dump stuff.  
> I brought some radios because someone was interested, and turns out they weren't as interested, and they're still there!

**Simon:**

> Turns out Jackie is exceedingly interested.  
> I know nothing about Ham radios, if you can educate her she would be exceedingly happy.

**Vic:**
(mentions something about ham radio, can't hear)

**Simon:**

> Action: We will discontinue offering storage space for members - Agreed by the committee and members.
>
> ACtion for Simon: further discussion for Criteria for donations,

**Josh:**

> Access to the space, we need to fix the door access.

**Ian:**

> Maybe this is not an AGM issue, we might just need to go fix it.

**Simon:**

> the person who purchased the Taz is interested in the filament for about £200
> Need to review as the committee.
> and get back to him.
> There's many drums in sealed bags, 2 or 3 \* 5Kg drums and lots of 1 Kg drums.
> We need to agree what to charge as a job lot.
>
> Need to agree a date for the next meeting.
>
> Provisional Date agreed: 4th December for committee meeting

## Meeting called to a close at 2143
